README.md, before:

# :sake: sake make

`sakemake` is a small program that provides a simple way to build your C++17 executables, structure your C++17 code, test and debug your source files.

It uses SCons, make and pkg-config under the hood, while providing a tool that aims to be as easy to use as `go build` for Go.

Dependencies, like for example SDL2, are discovered automatically and the correct flags are given to the C++ compiler. The latest versions of both GCC (g++) and Clang (clang++) are supported.

No configuration files are needed! No `CMakeLists.txt`, `Makefile`, `SConstruct`, `configure`, `automake`, `Makefile.in` or other acrobatics.

If you are building a library, `sakemake` is not for you yet. If you are looking for a configuration-free build system for C++17 on Linux, `sakemake` might be for you. You can give it a go and see if it works for what you are trying to achieve.


## Usage

In a directory with C++17 source files ending with `.cpp`, and a `main.cpp` file, building is as simple as:

    sakemake

Build and run:

    sakemake run

Build and run tests in a directory with files ending with `_test.cpp`:

    sakemake test

Clean:

    sakemake clean

Build with clang instead of gcc:

    sakemake clang

Debug build:

    sakemake debug

Building a specific directory (`sakemake` takes the same options as `make`):

    sakemake -C example/hello


## Features and limitations

* **No configuration needed**, as long as the *sakemake* directory structure is followed.
* **Auto-detection** of include, define and libarary flags, based on which files are included from `/usr/include`, using **`pkg-config`**.
* Built-in support for testing, clang, debug builds and only rebuilding files that needs to be rebuilt.
* Uses the caching that is supplied by SCons, no ccache needed.
* Does not use a `build` directory, it's okay that the `main` executable ends up in the root folder of the project. `main.cpp` can be placed in the root folder of the project, or in its own directory.
* Only tested on Linux, but should work on any UNIX-like system that has the required dependencies.
* All source filenames must be lowercase.
* Your include files are expected to be placed in `./include` or `../include`.
* Source files used by multiple executables in your project are expected to be placed in `./common` or `../common`.
* Tests are expected to end with `_test.cpp` and will be ignored when building `main.cpp`.
* For now, `sakemake` is meant to be able to build executables, not libraries.
* See the `hello` example in the `example` directory for the suggested directory structure.


## Suggested directory structure

For a "Hello, World!" program that places the text-generation in a `std::string hello()` function, this is one way to structure the files:


```
.
├── hello/main.cpp
├── hello/include/hello.h
├── hello/include/test.h
├── hello/common/hello.cpp
└── hello/common/hello_test.cpp
```

#### --- or if you prefer a `src` directory ---

```
.
└── hello/src/main.cpp
└── hello/include/hello.h
└── hello/include/test.h
└── hello/common/hello.cpp
└── hello/common/hello_test.cpp
```

**main.cpp**

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include "hello.h"

using std::cout;
using std::endl;

int main() {
  cout << hello() << endl;
  return 0;
}
```

**hello.h**

```c++
#pragma once

#include <string>

using std::string;
using namespace std::literals;

string hello();
```

**hello.cpp**

```c++
#include "hello.h"

string hello() {
  return "Hello, World!"s;
}
```

**hello_test.cpp**

```c++
#include "test.h"
#include "hello.h"

using namespace std::literals;

void hello_test() {
  equal(hello(), "Hello, World!"s);
}

int main() {
  hello_test();
  return 0;
}
```

**test.h**

```c++
#pragma once

#include <iostream>
#include <cstdlib>

using std::cout;
using std::endl;

template<typename T>
void equal(T a, T b) {
    if (a == b) {
        cout << "YES" << endl;
    } else {
        cout << "NO" << endl;
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }
}

```

## Requirements

* SCons
* Make
* pkg-config

## Installation

Prefer to install sakemake with your distro package manager, if possible.

System-wide, using sudo:

`sudo make install`

When creating a package:

`DESTDIR="$pkgdir" make install`

# Optional symlink

`sudo ln -s /usr/bin/sakemake /usr/bin/sm`

## Uninstallation

`sudo make uninstall`

## Feedback

The ideal is that every executable and small-ish project written in C++17 should be able to build with `sakemake` on a modern Linux distro, without any additional configuration. If you have a project that _almost_ builds with `sakemake`, please create an issue and include a link to your repository.

## Awards for you project

If your project can be built with `sakemake`, and if you want to, you can include this badge in your `README.md` file, using this Markdown code:

### Large badge

    [![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake))

[![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

### Medium badge

    [![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award_128x128.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake))

[![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award_128x128.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

### Small badge

    [![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award_72x72.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake))

[![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award_72x72.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

### Tiny badge

    [:sake:](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

[:sake:](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

## General info

* License: MIT
* Version: 0.6
* Author: Alexander F Rødseth &lt;xyproto@archlinux.org&gt;

## Cat

:cat:

Commit message:

Add support for "make install" for installation and packaging

README.md, after:

# :sake: sakemake

`sakemake` is a small program that provides a simple way to build your C++17 executables, structure your C++17 code, test and debug your source files.

It uses SCons, make and pkg-config under the hood, while providing a tool that aims to be as easy to use as `go build` for Go.

Dependencies, like for example SDL2, are discovered automatically and the correct flags are given to the C++ compiler. The latest versions of both GCC (g++) and Clang (clang++) are supported.

No configuration files are needed! No `CMakeLists.txt`, `Makefile`, `SConstruct`, `configure`, `automake`, `Makefile.in` or other acrobatics.

If you are building a library, `sakemake` is not for you yet. If you are looking for a configuration-free build system for C++17 on Linux, `sakemake` might be for you. You can give it a go and see if it works for what you are trying to achieve.


## Usage

In a directory with C++17 source files ending with `.cpp`, and a `main.cpp` file, building is as simple as:

    sakemake

Build and run:

    sakemake run

Build and run tests in a directory with files ending with `_test.cpp`:

    sakemake test

Clean:

    sakemake clean

Build with clang instead of gcc:

    sakemake clang

Debug build:

    sakemake debug

Building a specific directory (`sakemake` can take the same flags as `make`):

    sakemake -C example/hello

Cleaning and building:

    sakemake rebuild

Installing on the local system, using sudo:

    sudo PREFIX=/usr sakemake install

Packaging a project into $pkgdir:

    DESTDIR="$pkgdir" PREFIX=/usr sakemake install


## Features and limitations

* **No configuration needed**, as long as the *sakemake* directory structure is followed.
* **Auto-detection** of include, define and libarary flags, based on which files are included from `/usr/include`, using **`pkg-config`**.
* Built-in support for testing, clang, debug builds and only rebuilding files that needs to be rebuilt.
* Uses the caching that is supplied by SCons, no ccache needed.
* Does not use a `build` directory, it's okay that the `main` executable ends up in the root folder of the project. `main.cpp` can be placed in the root folder of the project, or in its own directory.
* Only tested on Linux, but should work on any UNIX-like system that has the required dependencies.
* All source filenames must be lowercase.
* Your include files are expected to be placed in `./include` or `../include`.
* Source files used by multiple executables in your project are expected to be placed in `./common` or `../common`.
* Tests are expected to end with `_test.cpp` and will be ignored when building `main.cpp`.
* For now, `sakemake` is meant to be able to build executables, not libraries.
* See the `hello` example in the `example` directory for the suggested directory structure.


## Suggested directory structure

For a "Hello, World!" program that places the text-generation in a `std::string hello()` function, this is one way to structure the files:


```
.
├── hello/main.cpp
├── hello/include/hello.h
├── hello/include/test.h
├── hello/common/hello.cpp
└── hello/common/hello_test.cpp
```

#### --- or if you prefer a `src` directory ---

```
.
└── hello/src/main.cpp
└── hello/include/hello.h
└── hello/include/test.h
└── hello/common/hello.cpp
└── hello/common/hello_test.cpp
```

**main.cpp**

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include "hello.h"

using std::cout;
using std::endl;

int main() {
  cout << hello() << endl;
  return 0;
}
```

**hello.h**

```c++
#pragma once

#include <string>

using std::string;
using namespace std::literals;

string hello();
```

**hello.cpp**

```c++
#include "hello.h"

string hello() {
  return "Hello, World!"s;
}
```

**hello_test.cpp**

```c++
#include "test.h"
#include "hello.h"

using namespace std::literals;

void hello_test() {
  equal(hello(), "Hello, World!"s);
}

int main() {
  hello_test();
  return 0;
}
```

**test.h**

```c++
#pragma once

#include <iostream>
#include <cstdlib>

using std::cout;
using std::endl;

template<typename T>
void equal(T a, T b) {
    if (a == b) {
        cout << "YES" << endl;
    } else {
        cout << "NO" << endl;
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }
}

```

## Requirements

* SCons
* Make
* pkg-config

## Installation

Prefer to install sakemake with your distro package manager, if possible.

System-wide, using sudo:

`sudo make install`

When creating a package:

`DESTDIR="$pkgdir" make install`

# Optional symlink

`sudo ln -s /usr/bin/sakemake /usr/bin/sm`

## Uninstallation

`sudo make uninstall`

## Feedback

The ideal is that every executable and small-ish project written in C++17 should be able to build with `sakemake` on a modern Linux distro, without any additional configuration. If you have a project that _almost_ builds with `sakemake`, please create an issue and include a link to your repository.

## Awards for you project

If your project can be built with `sakemake`, and if you want to, you can include this badge in your `README.md` file, using this Markdown code:

### Large badge

    [![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake))

[![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

### Medium badge

    [![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award_128x128.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake))

[![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award_128x128.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

### Small badge

    [![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award_72x72.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake))

[![sakemake award](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xyproto/sakemake/master/img/sakemake_award_72x72.png)](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

### Tiny badge

    [:sake:](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

[:sake:](https://github.com/xyproto/sakemake)

## General info

* License: MIT
* Version: 0.6
* Author: Alexander F Rødseth &lt;xyproto@archlinux.org&gt;

## Cat

:cat:
